	1. Network level firewall : 
	Firewalls employed at the network level use either dedicated hardware or sophisticated software appliances to form a shield around the network.
	
	2.  Server level firewall :  referred to as host-based firewalls and they run in a computer operating system to monitor and manage traffic in and out. Firewalls defend a network or an individual server from undesired traffic.

           Based on predefined rules, a firewall intercepts each inbound and outbound data packet, inspects its header, and decides whether to allow the packet to pass through.


Basic Networking concepts
A data packet is formed by the procedure called encapsulation

Header message attached to the packet called : payload

Payload has info about source ip , destination ip, type of data, port number, 

Ports are defined in the /etc/services file for common network services that are standardized across all network operating systems, including RHEL

The host-based firewall solution employed in RHEL uses a kernel module
called netfilter together with a filtering and packet classification framework
called nftables for policing the traffic movement.

firewalld

Firewalld is the hostbased firewall available on RHEL 8 version

The firewalld service lets you perform management operations at the command line using the firewall-cmd command, graphically using the web console, or manually by editing rules files. firewalld stores the default rules in files located in the /usr/lib/firewalld directory, and those that contain custom rules in the /etc/firewalld directory.



Firewalld zones 

Zones define policies based on the trust level of network
connections and source IP addresses. A network connection can be part of
only one zone at a time; however, a zone can have multiple network
connections assigned to it. Zone configuration may include services, ports,
and protocols that may be open or closed. It may also include rules for
advanced configuration items such as masquerading, port forwarding,
NATting, ICMP filters, and rich language. Rules for each zone are defined and
manipulated independent of other zones.
firewalld inspects each incoming packet to determine the source IP address
and applies the rules of the zone that has a match for the address. In the
event no zone configuration matches the address, it associates the packet
with the zone that has the network connection defined, and applies the rules
of that zone. If neither works, firewalld associates the packet with the default
zone, and enforces the rules of the default zone on the packet





2 locations where the zone rules stored in xml format 

	1. System defined rules : /usr/lib/firewalld/zones directory
	2. User defined rules : /etc/firewalld/zones













Firewall Management

	1. Firewall-cmd - command line to perform the activities 
	2. Graphical interface - web interface - 
	3. Use of the zones and templates and edit them as desired 



firewall-cmd Command

add or remove rules from the runtime configuration, or save any modifications to service configuration for persistence. It supports numerous options for the management of zones,
services, ports, connections, and so on;


Checking if it's running

Firewall-cmd  --state

Or  systemctl status firewalld




Default -Firewall management  - Firewalld


























